**Install and configure an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) like Snort or OSSEC:**

I will work on OSSEC for now.
Open source security event correlator is a HIDS based system mean it is installed on the host server it detects any suspicious activity by checking log files , file integrity and look for any rootkit in the system and alerts us. It can also work as IPS( intrusion prevention system) and can block any ip that harm the system.

Installing OSSEC on Linux.

Commond:

Installed ossec from the github repository.Untar the file and start the installation.

wget https://github.com/ossec/ossec-hids/archive/refs/tags/3.7.0.tar.gz

tar -xvzf 3.7.0.tar.gz

sudo ./install.sh


**OSSEC Configuration & Alerts**

**Running the OSSEC** 

/var/ossec/bin/ossec-control start

Checking the alerts:
cat /var/ossec/logs/alerts/alerts.log


**Test Events:**


**Brute-Force SSH Attack Simulation**

for i in {1..5}; do ssh fakeuser@localhost; done

Multiple failed login attempts result in a brute-force attack on a local server the OSSEC should have stored the log attempts made to the systems.

**Unauthorized Sudo Attempt**

Normal user try to run or access the sudo permission without having the permission for sudo.This log alerts should be generated by the OSSEC.

**Switching to a normal user.**

su - user1

sudo cat /etc/passwd

The user tries to access the passwd file by using sudo permission.but since the user1 is not in the sudoers file the log alert should be genereted by the HIDS.


The screenshot of the alerts for this event  is attached.This show that OSSEC is a powerful monitoring tool that look for file integrity changes and any logs attempt or iactivity in the system and generate and alert.






